# OIBSIP
Oasis Infobyte Internship Tasks

It was a great experience as a Java Programming Intern at Oasis Infobyte. Five tasks were given in total as part of the internship.

The five tasks were as follows:

TASK 1: ONLINE RESERVATION SYSTEM

TASK 2: NUMBER GUESSING GAME

TASK 3: ATM INTERFACE

TASK 4: ONLINE EXAMINATION

TASK 5: DIGITAL LIBRARY MANAGEMENT
Out of interest, I have completed five tasks in total.

The tasks that I performed were:

TASK 1: ONLINE RESERVATION SYSTEM

This Online Reservation System will include all the necessary fields required for the online reservation system. This Online Reservation System will be easy to use and can be used by anyone. The basic idea behind this project is to save data in a central database which any authorised person can access to get information, saving time and the burden their customers face.

It has some functionalities like:
1.Login Form
2.Reservation System
3.Cancel Reservation
4.Exit

TASK 2: NUMBER GUESSING GAME

The fun and easy project “Guess the Number” is a short Java project that allows the user to guess the number generated by the computer & involves the following steps:

The system generates a random number from a range of 1 to 100.
The user is prompted to enter their given number in a displayed dialogue box.
The computer then tells if the entered number matches the guessed number or if it is higher/lower than the generated number.
The game continues under the user guessing the number.

You can also incorporate further details as:
We are limiting the number of attempts.
We are adding more rounds.
We are displaying a score.
We are giving points based on the number of attempts.

TASK 3: ATM INTERFACE

We have all come across ATMs in our cities, and it is built on Java. This complex project consists of five different classes and is a console-based application. When the system starts, the user is prompted with a user id and pin. On entering the details successfully, then ATM functionalities are unlocked.

The project allows to perform the following operations:
1. Transactions History
2. Withdraw
3. Deposit
4. Transfer
5. Quit

TASK 4: ONLINE EXAMINATION

The project should be capable of the following functionalities.

1.Login
2.Update Profile and Password
3.Selecting answers for MCQs
4.Timer and auto submit.
5.Closing session and Logout

TASK 5: DIGITAL LIBRARY MANAGEMENT

The main objective of this project is to provide a completely automated Library by digitising every functionality. Starting from the book-keeping, issuing of books, fine generation, booking and report generation, all will be accomplished under one single project. The project will be web-based, with a database server responsible for maintaining every single detail of the Library. It has a very user-friendly interface which any non-technical person can efficiently operate.

There are essentially two modules of this software;

Admin module: Admin will have complete control over the system. Admin has permission to update, delete or modify any existing record or make a new entry (books and members).

Users: Normal users enjoy only limited privileges. They have view access to the books. They can browse the categories, search for a particular book, and return and issue a book. They are also provided with an email option in case of a query.


Overall, it was a great learning experience. It was an insightful experience as I got to work on different projects, test my skill, and network with amazing people.

Thank you for reading here patiently. I am glad to complete this internship and recommend everyone to grab this fantastic opportunity the Oasis Infobyte offers!
